学习笔记

### 641设计循环双端队列

    class MyCircularDeque {

      private final int capacity;
      private Node first;
      private Node last;
      private int count;
  
      /**
       * Initialize your data structure here. Set the size of the deque to be k.
       */
      public MyCircularDeque(int k) {
          this.capacity = k;
          this.count = 0;
          first = new Node(-1, null, null);
          last = new Node(-1, null, null);
          first.next = last;
          last.pre = first;
      }
  
      /**
       * Adds an item at the front of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful.
       */
      public boolean insertFront(int value) {
          if (count + 1 > capacity) {
              return false;
          }
           Node newNode = new Node(value, first, first.next);
          first.next.pre = newNode;
          first.next = newNode;
          count++;
          return true;
      }
  
      /**
       * Adds an item at the rear of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful.
       */
      public boolean insertLast(int value) {
          if (count + 1 > capacity) {
              return false;
          }
          Node newNode = new Node(value, last.pre, last);
          last.pre.next = newNode;
          last.pre = newNode;
          count++;
          return true;
      }
  
      /**
       * Deletes an item from the front of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful.
       */
      public boolean deleteFront() {
          if (count < 1) {
              return false;
          }
          first.next.next.pre = first;
          first.next = first.next.next;
          count--;
          return true;
      }
  
      /**
       * Deletes an item from the rear of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful.
       */
      public boolean deleteLast() {
          if (count < 1) {
              return false;
          }
          last.pre.pre.next = last;
          last.pre = last.pre.pre;
          count--;
          return true;
      }
  
      /**
       * Get the front item from the deque.
       */
      public int getFront() {
          return first.next.v;
      }
  
      /**
       * Get the last item from the deque.
       */
      public int getRear() {
          return last.pre.v;
      }
  
      /**
       * Checks whether the circular deque is empty or not.
       */
      public boolean isEmpty() {
          return count == 0;
      }
  
      /**
       * Checks whether the circular deque is full or not.
       */
      public boolean isFull() {
          return count == capacity;
      }
  
      class Node {
  
          int v;
          Node pre;
          Node next;
  
          Node(int v, Node pre, Node next) {
              this.v = v;
              this.pre = pre;
              this.next = next;
          }
      }
    }
